<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chapter xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" version="5.0"
      xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <title>DC Parameters</title>
  <para>
    Variables that VibroSim needs to use are stored in a parameter database.
    Generally these variables are called DC (Datacollect) parameters. VibroSim
    COMSOL can be run concurrently with a Datacollect session, allowing for
    simulations to be run on data as is being collected. Two parameter databases
    are used, one kept in MATLAB that holds any parameters that may be used.
    Parameters can be added to this database using the ``AddParamToParamdb``
    function. The second database is kept in COMSOL itself, and is intended to
    only have the parameters that are in active use in the COMSOL model. The
    function ``ObtainDCParameter`` will pull the DC parameter from the Paramdb
    and place it in the COMSOL parameter database.
  </para>

  <para>
    This chapter documents all the DC Parameters in active use in VibroSim
    COMSOL at the present time.
  </para>
  
  <variablelist>
    <title>DC Parameters</title>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>simulationtimestart</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                When to start the heatflow simulation. This will align with the
                beginning of the excitation. Will usually be zero as the
                excitation usually starts at t=0.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>simulationtimestep</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Time step for the heatflow simulation.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>simulationtimeend</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                When to end the heatflow simulation. Typically aligned with the
                end of the excitation.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>meshsizemin</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Minimum mesh size. COMSOL will try to limit the mesh size to
                this value when meshing around tight curvatures.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>meshsize</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Size of the mesh when there are no geometric constraints.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>spcviscousdamping</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Velocity dependent damping of the motion of the specimen.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>spcrayleighdamping_alpha</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Rayleigh damping coefficient alpha. Rayleigh damping is visous
                damping that is proportional to the mass and stiffness matrices
                of the specimen. Alpha is the coefficient of the mass matrix in
                the equation. Conceptually, increasing alpha will increase the
                damping in the low frequencies.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>spcrayleighdamping_beta</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Rayleigh damping coefficient alpha. Rayleigh damping is visous
                damping that is proportional to the mass and stiffness matrices
                of the specimen. Beta is the coefficient of the stiffness matrix
                in the equation. Conceptually, increasing beta will increase the
                damping in the high frequencies.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>simulationeigsaround</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                This parameter will inform the modal analysis study around which
                frequency to look for eigenmodes.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>laserx</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Location of the first laser vibrometer spot, x component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>lasery</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Location of the first laser vibrometer spot, y component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>laserz</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Location of the first laser vibrometer spot, z component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>laserdx</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Direction that the first laser vibrometer is pointing, x component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>laserdy</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Direction that the first laser vibrometer is pointing, y component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>laserdz</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Direction that the first laser vibrometer is pointing, z component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>laser2x</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Location of the second laser vibrometer spot, x component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>laser2y</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Location of the second laser vibrometer spot, y component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>laser2z</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Location of the second laser vibrometer spot, z component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>laser2dx</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Direction that the second laser vibrometer is pointing, x component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>laser2dy</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Direction that the second laser vibrometer is pointing, y component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>laser2dz</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Direction that the second laser vibrometer is pointing, z component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>spcthickness</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Thickness of the specimen. Used in the <code>CreateRectangularBarSpecimen()</code> function. 
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>spcwidth</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Width of the specimen. Used in the <code>CreateRectangularBarSpecimen()</code> function. 
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>spclength</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Length of the specimen. Used in the <code>CreateRectangularBarSpecimen()</code> function. 
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>tlmountoffsetx</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Top left mount offset.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>trmountoffsetx</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Top right mount offset.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>blmountoffsetx</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Bottom left mount offset.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>brmountoffsetx</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Bottom right mount offset.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>spcmaterial</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Material of which the specimen is made.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>simulationcrackx</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Crack center location, x component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>simulationcracky</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Crack center location, y component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>simulationcrackz</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Crack center location, z component.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>cracksemimajoraxislen</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Crack length in the semi-major axis. For an half-ellipse crack,
                the semimajor axis extends along the surface of the material.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>cracksemiminoraxislen</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Crack length in the semi-minor axis. For an half-ellipse crack,
                the semiminor axis extends into the depth of the material.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>simulationfreqstart</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Starting frequency for a frequency sweep.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>simulationfreqstep</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Step frequency for a frequency sweep.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>simulationfreqend</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Ending frequency for a frequency sweep.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>isolatorlength</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Length of the isolator. 
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>isolatorwidth</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Width of the isolator.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>isolatorthickness</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Thickness of the isolator. 
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>isolatormeshtype</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Mesh type of the isolator. Defaults to <code>HEXAHEDRAL</code>.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>isolatorfacemethod</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Face method of the isolator. Defaults to <code>FreeQuad</code>.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>isolatormeshsize</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Size of the mesh when there are no geometric constraints.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>isolatorsweepelements</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
	            Number of elements in the sweep direction.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>isolatorYoungsModulus</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Youngs modulus of the isolator. The isolator is simulated as a spring foundation. The stiffness of the spring being the Young's modulus divided by the thickness.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>isolatordashpotcoeff</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Dashpot coefficient of the isolator. The isolator is a spring foundation with damping. 
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>simulationsurfaceemissivity</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Surface emissivity to be used in the simulation. A black-body radiator has a surface emissivity of 1.0, this is the default.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>excitation_t0</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Vibration timing: the start of the envelope ramp-up.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>excitation_t1</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Vibration timing: end of the envelope ramp-up.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>excitation_t2</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Vibration timing: start of the envelope ramp-down.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>excitation_t3</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Vibration timing: end of envelope ramp-down.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

    <varlistentry>
        <term>simulationcameranetd</term>
        <listitem>
            <para>
                Camera noise equivalent temperature difference. A measure of the
                noise present in the image.
            </para>
        </listitem>
    </varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>couplantlength</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Length of the couplant.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>couplantwidth</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Width of the couplant.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>couplantthickness</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
	            Thickness of the couplant.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>couplantmeshtype</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Mesh type of the couplant. Defaults to <code>HEXAHEDRAL</code>.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>
    
	<varlistentry>
	    <term>couplantfacemethod</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Face method for the couplant. Defaults to <code>FreeQuad</code>
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>couplantmeshsize</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Size of the mesh when there are no geometric constraints.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>couplantsweepelements</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
	            Number of elements in the sweep direction.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>couplantYoungsModulus</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Youngs modulus of the couplant. The couplant is simulated as a spring foundation. The stiffness of the spring being the Young's modulus divided by the thickness.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>couplantdashpotcoeff</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Dashpot coefficient of the couplant. The isolator is a spring foundation with damping. 
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>calcvib</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
	            description
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>calcvib2</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
	            description
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>timedomain_start_time</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Start time of the time domain impulse response study.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>timedomain_step_time</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Time step of the time domain impulse response study.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>timedomain_end_time</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                End time of the time domain impulse response study.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>impulseexcitation_t0</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Center of the impulse exciation.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>impulseexcitation_width</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                With of the impulse excitation. 
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>seg1_freqstart</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Starting frequency for a frequency sweep.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>seg1_freqstep</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Frequency step for a frequency sweep.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>seg1_freqend</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Final frequency for a frequency sweep.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>seg2_freqstart</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Starting frequency for a frequency sweep.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>seg2_freqstep</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Frequency step for a frequency sweep.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>seg2_freqend</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Final frequency for a frequency sweep.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>seg3_freqstart</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Starting frequency for a frequency sweep.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>seg3_freqstep</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Frequency step for a frequency sweep.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>seg3_freqend</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Final frequency for a frequency sweep.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>seg4_freqstart</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Starting frequency for a frequency sweep.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>seg4_freqstep</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Frequency step for a frequency sweep.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>seg4_freqend</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Final frequency for a frequency sweep.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

	<varlistentry>
	    <term>simulationburstfreq</term>
	    <listitem>
	        <para>
                Excitation frequency for a single frequency burst study.
	        </para>
	    </listitem>
	</varlistentry>

  </variablelist>


</chapter>
