<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chapter  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" version="5.0"
      xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <title>Installation</title>
  <section>
    <title>System Requirements</title>
    <itemizedlist mark="bullet">
      <listitem>
	COMSOL (Version 5.0 or higher), including the Structural
	Mechanics module, LiveLink for MATLAB, and (in most cases) the CAD
	Import Module
      </listitem>
      <listitem>MATLAB (Version R2014b or higher)</listitem>    
    </itemizedlist>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Installation Procedure</title>
    <para>
      MATLAB and COMSOL must be installed. Follow the procedure in the
      LiveLink for MATLAB manual for configuring the version of MATLAB
      in the COMSOL desktop. The VibroSim archive should be expanded
      into a convenent directory. To run the VibroSim scripts, you must
      either change directory to the VibroSim directory, or add the
      VibroSim directory to your Matlab Path.
    </para>
  </section>
  <section>
    <title>Running VibroSim</title>
    <para>
      To run VibroSim scripts you need to have a COMSOL server and
      MATLAB running simultaneously. See COMSOL's LiveLink for MATLAB
      installation and user's guides for more information on running
      COMSOL server and MATLAB together. 
    </para>
    <para>
      VibroSim scripts can be run directly from MATLAB. Your script
      can set up variables and then call BuildVibroModel() to build
      and optionally run a particular configuration of parameters,
      geometry, flaw, physics, and result processing.
    </para>
    <para>
      In general you will want to build the VibroSim model from MATLAB
      with no graphical frontend connected to the COMSOL server (the
      graphical front end can sometimes interfere).
      Once the VibroSim scripts have constructed a model on the COMSOL server,
      you can connect to the COMSOL server from the COMSOL Desktop (an option in the Client/Server Menu), import the VibroSim model from the server (another
      option in the Client/Server Menu), and then work with the model
      from both MATLAB and the COMSOL Desktop. 
    </para>
  </section>
</chapter>
