<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chapter xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" version="5.0"
      xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <para>
    VibroSim is a toolkit for modeling vibrothermographic NDE.
    It is implemented as a set of MATLAB scripts which configure COMSOL
    to run the vibrothermographic simulation.
  </para>
  <para>
    PLEASE NOTE THAT VIBROSIM HAS NOT BEEN ADEQUATELY VALIDATED,
    THE NUMBERS BUILT INTO IT ALMOST CERTAINLY DO NOT APPLY
    TO YOUR VIBROTHERMOGRAPHY PROCESS. ITS OUTPUT CANNOT BE 
    TRUSTED AND IS NOT SUITABLE FOR ENGINEERING REQUIREMENTS
    WITHOUT APPLICATION- AND PROCESS-SPECIFIC VALIDATION. 
  </para>
  <para>
    Vibrothermography is an NDE technique for finding cracks by
    vibration-induced crack heating. When a specimen containing a
    crack is vibrated at high amplitude, heat is generated at the crack.
    This is caused by a friction-like dissipative mechanism based
    on the relative motion of the two crack faces. 
  </para>
  <para>
    VibroSim separates out your geometric and material model of your
    specimen from VibroSim's physics models of the vibrothermography
    process. The normal use of VibroSim is to predict vibrothermographic
    response by following a test process parallel to that which
    would be used in physical experiments.
  </para>
  <para>
    Specifically, the test process involves five steps:
    <orderedlist>
      <listitem>
	A modal vibration analysis to identify resonances.
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
	Frequency sweeps to analyze candidate vibrational resonances more
	precisely.
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
	Tone burst vibrational excitations at desired vibrational resonances
      </listitem>
      <listitem>
	Heatflow simulations predicting the resulting heat flow
	from each tone burst excitation
      </listitem>
    </orderedlist>
    In addition, prior to simulation you will need to create a
    solid model within COMSOL, a suitable mesh, and attach
    "couplant" and "isolators". There are also physics modules
    to support static deformation analysis (including
    geometric nonlinearity) as well as analysis of harmonic
    perturbation of a staticly loaded system (these additional physics
    modules will not normally be needed).
  </para>
  <section><title>Couplant and Isolators</title>
    <para>
      Couplant is the layer of protective material between your
      excitation transducer and your specimen. Isolators are similar
      layers of material between your specimen and its mount.
      Couplant and isolators form the boundary of the vibrational
      simulation: The details of your excitation transducer and
      mounting apparatus are beyond the couplant and isolators and
      are <emphasis>not</emphasis> explicitly modeled.
    </para>
    <para>
      Proper use of couplant and isolators is necessary to make
      vibrothermographic testing repeatable. Otherwise the unpredictability
      the contact nonlinearity and the complexity of the
      dynamic response of the mounts and transducer combine to add
      a huge amount process variability to the physical system.
      With such inconsistent experimental behavior, modeling is
      not meaningful.
    </para>
    <para>
      Couplant, modeled as a viscoelastic layer between your specimen
      and your transducer, acts as a spring that serves to isolate the
      dynamic behavior of the transducer from the dynamic behavior of
      your specimen. It inhibits the formation of complicated and
      unpredictable system resonances between the transducer and
      specimen (in the condition that the couplant mechanical mobility
      is much larger than the transducer mechanical mobility), and
      allows the transducer to be dynamically modeled as a
      displacement boundary condition on the opposite side of the
      couplant from the specimen.
    </para>
    <para>
      Isolators, likewise modeled as viscoelastic layers between your
      specimen and mounts, act as springs that isolate the dynamic
      behavor of the mounts from the dynamic behavior of your
      specimen.  They inhibit the formation of unpredictable system
      resonances between mounts and specimen (in the condition that
      couplant mechanical mobility is much larger than mount
      mechanical mobility), and allow the mounts to be dynamically
      modeled as zero displacement boundary conditions.
    </para>
  </section>
</chapter>
