<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<chapter  xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook" version="5.0"
      xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">
  <title>Tutorial</title>
  <section>
    <title>Running the demo simulation</title>
    <para>
      Run the comsol server, per the LiveLink for MATLAB
      documentation. Then run the 'vibrosim_demo2' script within
      MATLAB. This script only generates the model, it does not
      execute the model. You have the option of executing the model
      from MATLAB by typing "RunAllStudies(model);" at the MATLAB command
      prompt.  Once the script completes, you can open COMSOL and use
      the 'connect to server' and 'import model from server' options
      in the client/server menu to gain access to the generated model.
    </para>
    <para>
      You can inspect the model and results (if executed) from COMSOL. If you did not use RunAllStudies(), you can execute the study steps one-by-one.
    </para>
    
    <section><title>Performing a modal analysis</title>
      <para>
	The purpose of the modal analysis is to identify candidate
	resonant modes of the specimen. In vibrothermography testing
	you want to excite enough resonant modes that you will be
	pretty much guaranteed that any point in the specimen will have
	large strains in at least one of the modes. The modal
	analysis can be used to find these resonances. In experiments,
	this would be performed using a broadband frequency sweep across
	the entire range of possible excitation frequencies. 
      </para>
      <para>
	Select the <code>solidmech_modal_study</code> study in the
	COMSOL Desktop and click the <code>compute</code> button.
	This will perform a modal analysis to find the resonant modes
	of the specimen. When the calculation is complete, it will bring
	up a plot of a mode shape. In the plot settings, select a different
	eigenfrequency and click the 'plot' button to see another mode shape.
	Select a bending mode and make note of its frequency. 
      </para>
    </section>
    <section><title>Performing a frequency sweep</title>
      <para>
	The purpose of the frequency sweep is to do a more precise analysis
	than the modal analysis of specific candidate excitations over
	a range of frequencies. This is analogous to the narrowband sweeps
	that are performed in the vibrothermography process to identify
	the exact optimal excitation frequency for a particular
	resonant mode. 
      </para>
      <para>
	Select the <code>solidmech_harmonicsweep_study</code> study in the
	COMSOL Desktop and expand it it up to see the step contained within (<code>solidmech_harmonicsweep_step</code>). Adjust the <code>Frequencies</code>
	setting to specify a range surrounding the resonant mode you found
	in the modal analysis, e.g. <code>range(15650,10,15850)</code>, representing from 15650 Hz to 15860 Hz in steps of 10 Hz. 
	Now click the <code>compute</code> button.
	This will perform a frequency sweep to precisely identify that 
	particular resonant mode of the specimen. When the calculation is complete,
	it will bring up a 3D plot of the mode shape (selectable by frequency) plus plots of the modal amplitude as measured by crack strain magnitude and
	by displacement at the location of the simulated laser vibrometer.
      </para>
      <para>
	Identify the dominant frequency from the crack strain magnitude and
	vibrometer plots, and make note of this frequency for use in the
	tone-burst analysis. 
      </para>
    </section>
    <section><title>Performing a simulated tone-burst vibrothermography excitation</title>
      <para>
	Select the <code>solidmech_harmonicburst_study</code> study in the
	COMSOL Desktop and expand it it up to see the step contained within (<code>solidmech_harmonicburst_step</code>). Adjust the <code>Frequencies</code>
	setting to specify the single frequency you identified from the
	frequency sweep step, e.g. 15740 Hz. Now click the <code>compute</code> button.
	This will perform a vibrothermography simulation at exactly that frequency. When the calculation is complete,
	it will bring up a 3D plot of the mode shape.
      </para>
    </section>
    <section><title>Simulating the heat flow</title>
      <para>
	Select the <code>heatflow_study</code> study in the COMSOL
	Desktop and click the <code>Compute</code> button.  This will
	automatically calculate crack heating and thermal diffusion
	based on the vibration simulation most recently evaluated in
	<code>solidmech_harmonicburst_step</code>.  When the
	calculation is complete, it will bring up a 3D plot of the
	specimen showing crack heating (if present) plus simulated
	thermal camera noise. <emphasis>Be sure to adjust the time of 
	the plot and click 'Plot' again, as it takes time for heat 
	to be generated and build up.</emphasis> In this model the 
	excitation turns on at t=0.2 seconds and off at t=1.2 seconds, 
	so the peak heating usually occurs at t=1.2 seconds. 
      </para>
    </section>
  </section>
  
  <section>
    <title>Customizing the script</title>
    <!-- example of changing static boundary conditions? -->
    <para>
      An example of customizing the script is shown in <code>vibrosim_demo3.m</code>. This is a minor modification of <code>vibrosim_demo2</code> that defines static boundary conditions and automatically runs the model. See the following chapters for more information on boundary conditions and model parameters.
    </para>
  </section>

  <section>
    <title>Creating different geometry</title>
    <para>
      VibroSim is designed to make it much easier to swap out geometry
      than is normal for tools such as COMSOL. You usually only need
      to modify or replace the <code>geometryfunc()</code>.
      Your <code>geometryfunc()</code> is responsible for
      creating your specimen geometry, specifying the mesh, specifying
      the material, and applying suitable boundary conditions (isolator
      and couplant boundary conditions are automatically generated by
      the routines that create the isolators and couplant). 
    </para>
    <para>
      For a simple example, look at
      <code>CreateRectangularBarSpecimen()</code>.  This is about as
      simple as you can make a geometry function. There is no couplant
      or isolators (without couplant you can only do modal
      analysis). The meshing is defined and the material is defined.
      Also a 3D view is defined to provide a convenient default
      representation that looks at the crack.
    </para>
    <para>
      For a more advanced example, look at
      <code>CreateRectangularBarGeometry()</code>, which calls
      <code>CreateRectangularBarSpecimen()</code> and then creates
      isolators and couplant and also applys static boundary
      conditions to the isolators and couplant.
    </para>
  </section>
</chapter>
